[[!meta title="Release 2.4.0"]]
[[!meta date="2011-05-11"]]

[[!tag liblouisxml news release]]

This release brings in the many bug fixes and feature enhancements that
Bert Frees has done while working on the odt2braille Braille extension
to OpenOffice.org Writer.

### New features

#### xpath expression handling

Element specifiers for semantic actions can now be defined in terms of
xpath expressions

#### New style attributes

*   dontSplit + keepWithNext + orphanControl
*   underlinex: New style similar to italicx and boldx
*   heading5 ... heading10: Additional heading styles
*   contents5 ... contents10: Additional table of contents styles
*   centeredMargin: Prevent centered text from extending too near to the
    left and right edges.
*   dontSplit: Protect an element from being split across multiple
    pages.
*   keepWithNext: keep an element together with the first line of the
    next sibling.
*   orphanControl: Control how many lines of an element must be printed
    at least at the bottom of a Braille page.

#### New table of content parameters

printPageNumbersInContents + braillePageNumbersInContents

#### Many layout improvements

*   continuePages: Enable or disable prefixing of page numbers with a
    letter (a, b, c, etc.) on continued pages.
*   pageSeparator: Enable or disable placing of a page separator line
    where a print page break occurs.
*   pageSeparatorNumber: Enable or disable placing of page numbers with
    page separator lines.
*   ignoreEmptyPages: Empty pages can be ignored, or they can be
    indicated with a combined print page number.
*   printPageNumberRange: Show only the first print page number of a
    Braille page, or display the whole range of print pages contained in
    a Braille page.
*   mergeUnnumberedPages: Ignore page breaks without a page number.
*   pageNumberTopSeparateLine/pageNumberBottomSeparateLine: Provide a
    separate line for page numbers when they are placed at the top or
    bottom.
*   printPageNumbersInContents/braillePageNumbersInContents: Enable or
    disable print and Braille page numbers in the table of contents.

### Improvements

*   braillePageNumberAt/printPageNumberAt: Print page numbers and
    Braille page numbers can now both be placed at the top or bottom
    together.
*   Improved handling of linesBefore, linesAfter, newPageBefore,
    newPageAfter and pagenum.

### Bug fixes

*   Fixed table of content bugs
*   Fixed braille page number should only be visible on odd pages when
    interpoint = yes
*   Fixed failure when new print page starts on second last line of page
*   Fixed endless loop when braillePages=yes

