[[!meta title="Release 2.3.0"]]
[[!meta date="2011-05-09"]]
[[!tags news release]]

This release contains support for many more languages than before
(Swedish, Kurdish, Ethiopic, Serbian, many Indian languages). The search
path for tables is now a list of paths. Finally there is the usual
assortment of bug fixes.

### New features

#### Multiple table search path

The environment variable `LOUIS_TABLEPATH` can now contain a list of
paths (separated by commas) where liblouis should look for tables. This
allows the user to keep local tables.

#### New `--quiet` option for `lou_checktable`

`lou_checktable` writes to stderr even in the case of success. This can
now be suppressed with the new option `--quiet`.

#### New Swedish table

A new table for Swedish braille has been provided by Samuel Thibault.

#### New table for Sorani (Kurdish)

A new table for Sorani (Kurdish) Braille has been donated by Peter
Engström from Index Braille

#### New table for Ethiopic

A new table for Ethiopic Braille has been donated by Tamru E. Belay PH.D
from Adaptive Technology Center for the Blind (ATCB)

#### New table for Serbian

A new table for Serbian Braille has been donated by Peter Engström from
Index Braille

### Improved the documentation

The deprecated opcodes have been moved to a separate section

### Bug fixes

*   Fixed a long standing bug with an infinite loop in the table compiler

### Braille Table Improvements

*   Improvements to the Chinese braille table
*   Improvements to the Flemish Braille Math Code tables
*   Improvements to the Dutch Braille tables
*   Improvements to the Spanish Braille tables.
*   Fixes for the uncontracted French 6 and 8 dot tables
*   Improved support for Italian 8 dot
*   Improvements to the Generic Arabic Grade 1 table
