[[!meta title="Release 2.5.3"]]
[[!meta date="2013-06-21"]]
[[!tag news release]]

### New features

#### New Braille tables

*   Korean grade 1 and grade 2 thanks to Joseph Lee
*   U.K. English 8 dot computer braille table thanks to David Reynolds
*   New Russian literary and computer braille tables thanks to Igor B.
    Poretsky. These replace the older Russian tables which are left for
    backwards compatibility.
*   New hyphenation dictionary for Russian thanks to Igor B. Poretsky.
*   Updated hyphenation tables for the Norwegian language (nynorsk and
    bokmål) thanks to Lars Bjørndal.
*   New hyphenation dictionary for Esperanto thanks to Aaron Cannon.
*   New Esperanto grade 1 table, using the x system for accented
    letters, thanks to Aaron Cannon.

#### runHarness.py:

Accept filename globs on the commandline to run specific harness files.
In tests/harness, one can do make <filename> or make runall Removed from
make check because these checks are checking the validity of our tables,
rather than validity of the code.

### Braille Table Improvements

*   da-dk-g2.ctb, mostly rewritten to use nocross and hyphenation table.
*   Most tables: removed the default collapse whitespace statements, if
    you need to compress whitespace, consider adding compress.ctb to the
    list of tables when processing.
*   Corrections to Unified English Braille Code (Grade 1 and 2), thanks
    to Joseph Lee
*   Corrections to apostrophes in the Computer Spanish 8 dots Braille
    table (Es-Es-G0.utb). Thanks to Juan C. Buno.
*   Corrections for double angle quotation marks and emphasis marks in
    the Norwegian Grade 0 Braille Table. Thanks to Knut Arne Bjørndal.
*   Fixes for a minor problem regarding the noletsign in Norwegian
    contracted braille. Thanks to Lars Bjørndal.
*   Corrections to the Italian table thanks to Igor B. Poretsky.
*   Corrections to the Hungarian grade 1 table thanks to Hammer Attila
*   Corrections to English, U.S. Grade 2 (ABAE) table. Thanks to Ken
    Perry for reporting the bug and John J. Boyer for fixing it.
*   Further reorganization of the tables to remove duplication. Move
    litdigit opcode common parts and include where needed.
*   Removed obsolete en-us-g1.utb, which has been replaced by
    en-us-g1.ctb.
*   Added dictionary harness tests for: en-ueb-g2.ctb, en-us-g2.ctb.
*   Corrections to Nemeth character definitions thanks to Neil Soiffer.
*   Corrections to the Esperanto table thanks to Aaron Cannon.

### Bug Fixes

*   Cursor position calculation is now based on the same code that
    calculates inpos and outpos. This probably solves a number of bugs.
*   Fix nocross opcode processing.
*   Fix several buffer over/under runs in
    lou_translateString.c:hyphenate.
*   Fix the ‘=’ problem, i.e. fix inputPositions calculation for the
    case where the equals sign is used as the dots operand. Thanks to
    Bert Frees
*   Fix a bug when resizing a table. Previously not all references to
    this table were updated.

### Backwards incompatible changes

The feature that allowed a mapping between language code and Braille
table was removed as it contained a out-of-bounds access bug, was never
documented and probably never used. Thanks to Peter Nilsson Lundblad and
Jeremy Roman for analyzing this problem and providing a patch.
