[[!meta date="Wed, 7 May 2014 12:49:56 +0200"]]
[[!tag news]]

Dear all,

In the past we have discussed the possibility of moving away from svn to a
decentralized version control system, with a lite branching model to improve
our workflow/review process and hopefully the quality of the project code.

It will also make it easier for features to be developed in parrallel, and merged once completed.
It also allows for organizations with customized tables to easely track the project without major problems.

We will be using git, since its a very powerful and commonly known version control system.

The code will be hosted on [github][ll_vcs]

For those that are not interested in learning git, github provides a svn to git
bridge, so you should be able to access the project with your existing svn
client.

To improve our code base,
we have decided that no work will be committed to the master branch directly,
but will live on a feature branch, until the necessary changes are complete,
and has been reviewed by at least one maintainer.
If the person doing the work on the feature branch happens to be a maintainer s/he should not merge unless it has been reviewed by another maintainer.
Before merging, all existing tests should pass.
This hopefully will enable us to provide builds directly from our continuous integration server.

The old [google svn][ll_old_vcs] repository will be kept for a while as read only and will not be updated with any new code.

Please bare with us while we do the necessary changes, and update relevant documentation.

Sorry for any temporary Upheaval.

thanks
Maintainer team.


[ll_vcs]: http://github.com/liblouis/liblouis
[ll_old_vcs]: http://code.google.com/p/liblouis/
[svnclients]: https://help.github.com/articles/support-for-subversion-clients
