[[!meta title="Release 2.5.4"]]
[[!meta date="2014-06-21"]]
[[!tag news release]]

This release contains nine months worth of braille table improvements
for example for Danish, UEB, en-us, Nemeth, Bulgarian, Slovenian and
many more. Also there are fixes to the core for table path resolving and
back-translation.

### New features

*   Added function `lou_registerTableResolver` for plugging in a table
    resolver callback from your host language.

### Bug Fixes

*   Fixed ENDSEGMENT indicator in computer Braille thanks to John Boyer.
*   Emphasized words should now be contracted consistently thanks to
    John Boyer.
*   Fixed several problems with back-translation. A slash within a
    number and strings such as 5-inch-diameter and 25-year-old-man
    should now back-translate correctly. Thanks to John Boyer.
*   Fixed a problem with syllable opcode. Thanks to John Boyer.
*   Fix warnings with gcc 4.8.2. Thanks to Peter Lundblad.
*   When a table is specified with an absolute or relative path, the
    "includes" in that table will now work as expected, meaning files in
    the same directory will be found.

### Braille Table Improvements

*   fr-bfu-comp8.utb: corrections, zero was wrongly displayed in some
    instances.
*   en-us-g2.ctb, en-ueb-g2.ctb: Fixes for that's, can't and s' thanks
    to Ken Perry.
*   en-us-g2.ctb: Fix for back-translation of things like
    <http://address.com>, words including after, capsigns. thanks to Ken
    Perry.
*   Further corrections and testcases to the Hungarian tables thanks to
    Hammer Attila
*   Fixed letter sign in en-us and en-ueb tables. Thanks to John Boyer
    and Ken Perry.
*   UEB Fixes thanks to Mesar Hameed, Ken Perry and Joseph Lee:
    -   chardefs - correct title and fixed a long standing bug where
        dots 46 was inserted between letters (especially for web
        addresses).
    -   Fix problem with at sign.
    -   Removed section of accented letters, that were left behind from
        US table.
    -   Added todo for accents, to define according to the formal docs.
    -   Corrected mathematical forall symbol.
    -   Modified emphasis dot combinations to follow UEB standard.
    -   Corrected the display of period when used as a midword.
    -   Ensure 'inin' is correctly back-translated in words such as
        asinine, feminine and others.

*   Bulgarian bg.ctb: updated to meet modern standards (added Latin
    letters, corrected punctuation/mathematical symbols, misc typos).
    Thanks to Rumiana Kamenska
*   en-gb-g1.utb: Fixes thanks to Paul Wood
*   Fix for the lich sign in the German tables. Thanks to Halim Sahin.
*   Nemeth improvements thanks to John Boyer.
    -   Spaces in nemethdefs.cti were changed to unbreakable spaces.
        This was done so that nemeth expressions would not be broken
        between lines.
    -   The number sign is now inserted between the minus sign and the
        number at the beginning of an expression. Some problems with
        pass2 opcodes have also been corrected.

*   The Esperanto table has additional punctuation characters and a test
    harness. Thanks to Aaron Cannon.
*   Added missing symbols to the US English BRF display table. Thanks to
    Aaron Cannon.
*   Improvements to the Slovenian table and a new Slovenian eight dot
    computer table provided by Jožef Gregorc.
*   Fixes to the Norwegian tables thanks to Lars Bjørndal
    -   Fixes for less than / greater than.
    -   Add entries for URLs, domains and file names.

*   Added ne.utb, an alternative Nepali braille table. One of ne.utb or
    ne.ctb will be removed/merged in a future version. Keeping both for
    the time being so that users can test and give feedback on which is
    most correct. Thanks to Him Prasad Gautam, and Mesar Hameed

### Backwards incompatible changes

*   Delete the table chardefs-ueb.cti as these rules are now provided by
    en-ueb-chardefs.uti

### Invisible changes

*   Refactoring in compileTranslationTable.c: separated more clearly the
    compilation from the table resolving, removed duplicate code, etc.

