[[!meta title="Braille embossers should accept UTF-8 unicode braille"]]
[[!meta date="Sun Jun 29 18:27:46 BST 2014"]]
[[!meta author="mesar.hameed"]]
[[!tag documentation unicode]]

## Introduction ##

At the moment producing a document in one country, printing it to check correct braille, 
sending the electronic file to a different location, and printing it there
will often produce different output on paper.

## Example ##

Printable string we want to translate/emboss:

    a @ b

Translate using US grade 1 table:

    >>> louis.translateString(['en-us-g1.ctb'], 'a @ b')

Translated output which is saved to file:

    ;a `a ;b

If we print this in the US, with the default mapping, we will see the following dots on paper:

    ⠰⠁ ⠈⠁ ⠰⠃

We want to print the same document in Sweden, the same translated output which was saved to file will now produce different dots on paper:

    ⠆⠁ ⠨⠁ ⠆⠁ 

50% of the braille cells in this example are wrongly printed.

## Solution/Recommendations ##

-  Braille printers should except UTF-8 unicode braille, in the range U+2800 - U+28FF [1].
-  UTF-8, because it is network/cable friendly, and there is no need to worry about byte order.
-  Translation should output non-ambiguous unicode braille in the range U+2800 - U+28FF [1].  
-  Translated braille is stored in UTF-8 files with the extension ubrl, think brf but more generic and fully supportive of 8 dots.
-  The translated file is stored/sent/printed as unicode braille, avoiding locale problems.
-  User can open file on their note taker/with their screenreader/brailledisplay and can read the file
   (already supported with NVDA/Orca/ various note takers).
-  Sighted user can open the translated file in a unicode aware text editor and see the dot pattern that will be printed.
-  A print ready document produces the same output independant of locale/loaded table on the hardware.
-  Easier to transport and print braille documents in different locales, for example documents that contain more than one language.



[1]: http://unicode-table.com/en/sections/braille-patterns/
