[[!meta title="Minimum set of tests for a table"]]
[[!meta date="Tue 26 Aug 10:59:25 BST 2014"]]
[[!tag documentation]]

Thanks for your interest in wanting to provide minimum test data for your table, or for an existing table that currently does not have any tests.
When creating tests, we would like to target edge cases, because it is at these edges that problems sometimes happens. If we can catch/resolve them at the testing stage, users will have a professional, pleasant and smooth experience.

Please note that if your writing system is using something other than the Latin script.

Tests should cover:

## Simple mathematical/numerical expressions

    1+2=3
    12-13=-1
    20/5=4
    (2*44)/4=22
    +44,0123456789


## Generic symbols

    = ! + - _ | \ / [ ] { } ( ) ' " # % ^ & * ~ , ? < > $ £ 

## For a grade 1 table
*   If possible, a [pangram][] ([English example][foxdog]), because it 
    covers your alphabet in one test. If this is not available, then test(s)
    to cover the alphabet of the language.
*   If the writing script uses diacritics, then a few tests to ensure diacritics are correctly positioned around the letters.
*   Transition from numbers to text: `123abc`
*   Transition from text to numbers: `abc123`
*   Numbers in middle of text: `abc123def`
*   Text in the middle of numbers: `123abc456`
*   If script is non Latin, then repeat the above tests with the local script.
*   (For non Latin scripts) local text to Latin: `ابتabc`
*   (For non Latin scripts) Latin to local text: `abcابت`

## For a grade 2 table

In addition to the above: 

*   A minimum of 1 test per contraction rule.


[pangram]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pangram
[foxdog]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_quick_brown_fox_jumps_over_the_lazy_dog
